



 1. Clone existing GitHub repository
git clone <repository-url>

 2. Go into the project directory
cd my-first-repo

 3. Configure user name and email for this repository
git config user.name "darina dolgaya"
git config user.email "ddarusya32@gmail.com"

 4. Stage only .gitignore for the first commit
git add .gitignore

 5. Commit .gitignore
git commit -m "feat: add .gitignore file"

 6. Stage README.md and package.json together
git add README.md package.json

 7. Commit README.md and package.json
git commit -m "feat: add package.json and readme files"

 8. View commit history in short form
git log --oneline

 9. Push changes to GitHub
git push 



$ git log --oneline
7ff02be (HEAD -> main, origin/main) feat : add package.json amd readme files
1aa97ed feat : add .gitignore file



Brief explanation of each command

 git clone <repository-url>
 Clones an existing remote repository (for example from GitHub) to the local machine.

 cd my-first-repo
 Changes the current directory to the project folder so all further commands run inside this repository.

 git config user.name "Your Name"
 Sets the Git user name for this repository, which will be stored in each commit’s metadata.

 git config user.email "your.email@example.com"
 Sets the Git user email for this repository, also saved in each commit’s metadata.

 git status
 Shows the current state of the working directory and staging area (which files are tracked, modified, or staged).

 git add .gitignore
 Adds .gitignore to the staging area so it will be included in the next commit.

 git commit -m "feat: add .gitignore file"
 Creates a new commit with the staged changes and the given commit message.

 git add README.md package.json
 Stages README.md and package.json together for the next commit.

 git commit -m "feat: add package.json and readme files"
 Creates a second commit that includes README.md and package.json.

 git log --oneline
 Shows a compact view of the commit history with short commit hashes and messages.

 git push origin main
 Sends the local commits on the main branch to the main branch of the remote repository (e.g. GitHub).
